pax has been just a unbelievable advance
to a health care up here in the
territories this particular k gentleman
who had was riding an ATV and had an
injury flipped over I flipped over and
what would happen in the past is the
nurse or the physician may call and see
that the gentleman has a broken bone
identified perhaps as the femur
depending on the skill set of the
practitioner not and they may or may not
know whether it was displaced or where
it was broken or how it was angulated
whereas now a picture is literally worst
a thousand words are more than a
thousand words they can take this
picture in the community and we can see
it essentially as soon as it's taken
here in LF and say that this gentleman
has a broken femur at the distal third
of his femur that's angulated anteriorly
and completely displaced and he needs a
treatment for a-rod and to make sure
that he gets stabilized otherwise with
regards to his other injuries he had no
other injuries we knew right away what
he was coming down for and we knew right
away what to prep the operating room for
a lot of the cases are much more subtle
as to whether the person actually needs
an operation or not in the more subtle
cases you can imagine how we can decide
a lot of the times we look at the
pictures and say no that person doesn't
need an operation that particular injury
should be managed just with a cast or
doesn't even need a cast or yes that
person doesn't need an operation it's
really great for the pet for the
patients it's fantastic for us it helps
everybody gets advanced warning as to
who's coming down and it's great for the
people up in the community because they
right away they get turnaround from us
even before they get an x-ray report
they can get us a right here we can see
these pictures here and give them
feedback as to what to do
you can this is very useful for the
diagnosis of problems but from our point
of view it's very very good for
management when somebody calls us and
they said they have a fracture it's not
a big problem if it's a very obvious
large fracture like this one but often
they they have a case and they don't
know whether they should send the
patient down or or treat it up there and
this can be fifteen thousand dollar
decision because that's what a medevac
might cost this way we can look at the
same x-ray at the same time in the past
that you'd have to put the extra on a
plane sent down we've flown them back
and there was a lot of delay now we're
talking about the same about the same
x-ray so it goes straight to the person
who are doing the management and you may
bypass their the radiologist
it's very easy to use maximum get easier
so that's not a prominent benefactor
it's easier to manipulate Victor you can
you can zoom in on the on an auto film
once again you can zoom in on you can
you can rotate the film's you can do all
you can do a lot of things you couldn't
do with an ordinary film so it's
actually better you can measure the
actual angles on the between the moments
if you actually wanted to measure them
shows you right here how much angulation
that's at a 32 and a half degree angle
so there's not any doubt as to whether
it's 30 degrees or 25 degrees gives
absolutely identical we do a lot of
total joint replacements here and then
we template the x-rays right on it's
kind of part of all of this right on the
machine and it shows us exactly where to
make the cut what angle it's out on and
how much more to take off and what kind
of angle we should be looking at so it
really works out really well for us in
orthopaedics
I think it's obvious they've crossed on
on the film's itself and the production
that's what we've been told but we know
it that it saves us probably every month
one or two flights that don't need to
come down that cost about fifteen twenty
thousand dollars each time so it's not
this better treatment it does save a lot
of money when you're treating be filling
our large territory like this here's to
orthopedic surgeons and we can we can
see the active almost anybody in the
territories of earliest we can once they
get this system in every hospital right
now it's limited above five centers so
right if any doubt from their calls
Magnus's I need to look at next day I
just said hang on i'll set down the
computer and we'll look at the same
x-ray within about two minutes so it's
been tremendous for the car savings on
the for the avoidance of the many backs
but even on the other hand when they
some people will say well they've got
this x-ray and i don't see anything we
may look at it and say no no there's a
fracture right through there that kind
of stuff and that person in the past may
not have been many back but may have
gone on too long term problems because
of a mismanaged fracture undiagnosed
fracture whereas now we can see it right
now on either reassure or say no that's
somebody that should be coming down here
so obviously that would be an increased
initial cost to the system but much
better management for the patient and
probably decrease long-term costs
because of the lack of a long-term
complications even even follow up like a
simple fracture to to call these
fractured you put them in a cast for a
month and then i'll just will often
reduce a fracture like that and will say
get an extra in the community in a month
and let us know when it's on a computer
will have a look at it and barring any
clinical complications if we can if we
could judge it on x-ray we will we just
said oh that's fine turn him loose he
can
after the cast it saves them coming down
for repeated visits in many cases it's a
great system I mean not I don't think we
could go back to working with the old
the regular films now just once we're
used to this to actually have to be
running around looking for the films for
the people what they do as a skill set
to try to for the people the providers
out in the communities to actually
describe the x-rays that skill sets
probably been lost and there's just no
comparison the to save the picture is
worth a thousand words it's probably
worth more than 10,000 that certainly
works more than 10,000 bucks and that
most of these that these pictures are
saving a lot of my each time